Have you ever worked at a company
where your mood instantly dropped
as soon as you walked into the door?
Did you spend your work days forcing smiles
and counting down the minutes until you could leave?
If so, you likely worked within a negative team culture.
Negative team cultures can feel overwhelming.
But regardless of how bad things are,
you can still turn them around with the right strategy.
So how's that done?
You'll need to understand the symptoms
as well as how to alleviate them.
There are several tell-tale signs of negative team culture.
First, you may notice some overarching unhappiness,
including moments of employee frustration,
stress, anxiety, and burnout.
And with that unhappiness,
employees may also be unmotivated
and appear bored and apathetic.
Or they might even fear speaking up
and sharing their thoughts.
Also, rather than working together,
team members may show signs of unhealthy competition,
zero comradery, and even socially harmful behaviors
like gossiping or bullying.
Finally, you may spot signs of top-down communication,
workplace favoritism, suspicion, and mistrust.
And ultimately, a higher turnover.
The more of those signs you notice within your organization,
the more likely it is you're working
within a negative team culture.
So, what can you do about that?
How can you transform a negative team culture
into a positive one?
To transform a negative team culture,
you'll wanna follow four steps.
First, identify what problems you're facing.
When following this step, keep in mind that our opinion,
while valuable, isn't enough.
So hold a team meeting.
Hear from everyone and come to a group consensus.
Next, uncover why those culture problems exist.
During this stage, dig a little deeper
to determine what shared policies, values,
and actions are supporting those toxic behaviors.
And to get the most accurate and honest assessment,
consider gathering that information
through anonymous employee surveys.
Now that you know what problems you're experiencing
as well as why those problems exist,
the next step is to tackle the issues head on,
which brings us to step three.
Step three is to create a repair strategy.
The strategy you choose should depend
on your team's diagnosis.
For example, if your team is experiencing
a discrimination problem,
you might focus on helping employees
build their emotional intelligence with courses,
workshops, and sensitivity trainings.
Another idea that you might try
is adjusting your company policy
so that everyone is treated equally.
Or you may incorporate transparent communication policies
to reduce confusion and information hoarding.
You might also place an emphasis on encouraging cooperation
by giving more team-based assignments,
praising employees for working together,
and holding team-building activities.
Regardless of which strategies you choose,
compile that list and confirm with your team members
that you're all on the same page.
Then, move on to the final step.
The last step is to implement your plan.
During this stage, don't try to fix everything at once,
as that may overwhelm your team.
Instead, tackle the biggest problems first.
Then once those strategies are in place,
move on to the smaller elements of your repair strategy.
No one wants to admit their team culture is negative,
but if that's the reality you're facing,
you must confront those problems
before they get out of control.
So meet with your team and follow the steps we just covered.
Also, be persistent, as that's the key
to turning things around for the better.